I'm a Software Engineer <beat> which I became at the age of 7.

Our school introduced us to Monochrome, mouseless, IBM compatibles.  I was in the future!

Then they gave us access to GW BASIC. And at age 9, I wrote my first loop... which did nothing... exactly 10 times.

But I was hooked.  I went to University and earned a degree in Multimedia Design where I picked up HTML, CSS, and ActionScript.

And what do you do with a degree in Multimedia Design?  <beat> You became an Operations Manager at a coffee copmpany. <beat> In truth, it was post 2009--you found work where you could.


But inside, I was still a Software Engineer.

On top of the day-to-day tasks, I secretly wrote small apps in Visual BASIC.  Ultimately, the code I wrote used predictive logic to reduce the monteized waste across the region, and encouraged growth in markets that were previously thought not possible, so I had really good numbers.

(breath)

But something inside me didn't feel right.  I knew I was meant for more.

So I left that career in pursuit of one that aligns with what I really am: a Software Engineer.  I found an awesome school, and never looked back.


And so for the past year, I've been refining my techniques in JavaScript and Ruby on Rails.

Recently, I created two web applications.

The first one is a social journalism app based on Medium.com that uses React and Redux on the front end with PostGres on the back; with AWS for blob storage.  That one was cool because I built the text editor from scratch.

The other is a puzzle game based off Dr. Mario written in pure vanilla DOM JS and HTML5's Canvas.


I've also collaborated on two larger projects utilizing MERN stack.

One is a Pinterest clone where we built the back end with Mongoose and Express and implemented some cool image libraries on the front.

The other is a mobile first app called Just Decide.  It helps indecisive groups come to a decision; like "what movie are we seeing tonight?" and then everyone votes.

We built that one with Apollo and GraphQL.

<beat> It's been non-stop growth... And honestly, I'd like to continue that growth--with your company.

I really like your mission statement and your company culture.  I'm familiar with the technology and belive my skillsets would be an asset.

I know you're looking for good people, and I'm here to work hard, hustle, and contribute.

I know I can help.

(Current: 2 min 28 sec)


NOTES:
- Don't use "LEARN" - comes off as not knowledgeable


(What the project was and a statement about it.  DON'T RAMBLE.)

(listed all the technologies I know and then tie in the projects with the technologies not listed)

I've always been adept with computers on the hardware side.  I built my first computer when I was 9--when graphics outputted directly from the motherboard and any time you wanted to add a new piece of hardware you had to mess with Interupt ReQuests in the BIOS
