Don't look back, something might be gaining on you. -- S. Paige, c. 1951
A clash of doctrine is not a disaster -- it is an opportunity.-- Stanislaw Lem
A dream will always triumph over reality, once it is given the chance. -- Stanislaw Lem
A fake fortuneteller can be tolerated. But an authentic soothsayer should be shot on sight. Cassandra did not get half the kicking around she deserved.-- R.A. Heinlein
A lifetime isn't nearly long enough to figure out what it's all about.-- Lew Col
A lot of people I know believe in positive thinking, and so do I. I believe everything positively stinks. -- Lew Col
A priest advised Voltaire on his death bed to renounce the devil. Replied Voltaire, "This is no time to make new enemies."
A thing is not necessarily true because a man dies for it. -- Oscar Wilde, "The Portrait of Mr. W.H."
Science is a differential equation. Religion is a boundary condition. -- Alan Turing
There are heroes in evil as well as in good. - La Rochefoucauld, Maxims
"Loneliness is the poverty of self; solitude is the richness of self." —- May Sarton
Luck, that's when preparation and opportunity meet. -- P. E. Trudeau
Creativity is no substitute for knowing what you are doing. -- H. L. Mencken
Conscience is a mother-in-law whose visit never ends. -- H. L. Mencken
The world is coming to an end.  Please log off.
Don't be irreplaceable, if you can't be replaced, you can't be promoted.
The number of UNIX installations has grown to 10, with more expected.-- The Unix Programmer's Manual, 2nd Edition, June 1972
"Psychoanalysis??  I thought this was a nude rap session!!!" -- Zippy
Always remember that you are unique.  Just like everyone else.
God is real, unless declared integer.
"Nuclear war can ruin your whole compile." -- Karl Lehenbauer
Computers are useless.  They can only give you answers. -- Pablo Picasso
I'm tired of telling people what they're too lazy to know.--Van Morrison
E Pluribus UNIX.
Didja hear about the dyslexic devil worshiper who sold his soul to Santa?
What garlic is to salad, insanity is to art.
A little inaccuracy sometimes saves tons of explanation.-- H. H. Munroe
The difficult we do today; the impossible takes a little longer.
To make an enemy, do someone a favor.
Computer Science is no more about computers than astronomy is about telescopes. -- Edsger W. Dijkstra
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.  And littered with sloppy analysis!
An expert is a man who has made all the mistakes which can be made, in a very narrow field. -- Niels Bohr
Every nonzero finite dimensional inner product space has an orthonormal basis.It makes sense, when you don't think about it.
Behold the warranty ... the bold print giveth and the fine print taketh away.
A strong conviction that something must be done is the parent of many bad measures.
Life would be so much easier if we could just look at the source code.
Hardware is what you kick;Software is what you curse.
Life is a whim of several billion cells to be you for a while.
I doubt, therefore I might be.
"Yeah, but you're taking the universe out of context."
Slowly and surely the unix crept up on the Nintendo user ...
For every complex problem, there is a solution that is simple, neat, and wrong. -- H. L. Mencken
Man and nations will act rationally when all other possibilities have been exhausted.
"He flung himself on his horse and rode madly off in all directions"
"A witty saying proves nothing." -- Voltaire
There is no substitute for good manners, except, perhaps, fast reflexes.
Zero Defects, n.: The result of shutting down a production line.
Firings will continue until morale improves.
"Apathy is not the problem, it's the solution"
If two men agree on everything, you may be sure that one of them is doing the thinking.-- Lyndon Baines Johnson
A consultant is a person who borrows your watch, tells you what time it is, pockets the watch, and sends you a bill for it.
If at first you don't succeed, redefine success.
It is hard to predict, in particular about the future.-- Robert Storm Petersen
You can make it foolproof, but you can't make it damnfoolproof.
It's like deja vu all over again.
"Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away". -- Philip K. Dick
All science is either physics or stamp collecting.-- E. Rutherford
An intellectual is someone whose mind watches itself.-- Albert Camus
War is much too serious a matter to be entrusted to the military.-- Clemenceau
Imitation is the sincerest form of television.-- Fred Allen
like all CMU code:  way cool design, implementation like wet camel shit.
The man who is born with a talent which he is meant to use finds his greatest happiness in using it.  -Johann von Goethe
Use what talents you possess; the woods would be very silent if no birds sang except those that sang best.  -Henry Van Dyke
There is a close connection between getting up in the world and getting up in the morning.  -Anon.
A mind once stretched by a new idea never returns to its original dimensions.  -Oliver Wendell Holmes
"There's so much comedy on television.  Does that cause comedy in the streets?"
"Happiness is not a state to arrive at, but a manner of traveling."
"Human history becomes more and more a race between education and catastrophe.”—H.G. Wells
"Benson, you are so free of the ravages of intelligence."― Time Bandits
"Deliver yesterday, code today, think tomorrow."
Humor is a drug which it's the fashion to abuse." ― William Gilbert
"I am not an Economist. I am an honest man!" ― Paul McCracken
"The illegal we do immediately. The unconstitutional takes a bit longer." ― Henry Kissinger
80 percent of all statistics are made up on the spot, including this one.
99% of all guys are within one standard deviation of your mom.
A LISP programmer knows the value of everything, but the cost of nothing.
A hermit is a deserter from the army of humanity.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a cash advance.
A king's castle is his home.
A lack of leadership is no substitute for inaction.
A language that doesn't affect the way you think about programming is not worth knowing.
A language that doesn't have everything is actually easier to program in than some that do. ― Dennis M. Ritchie
A nuclear war can ruin your whole day.
A nymph hits you and steals your virginity.
A penny saved is ridiculous.
A person is just about as big as the things that make them angry.
A person who knows only one side of a question knows little of that.
A person with one watch knows what time it is; a person with two watches is never sure. Proverb
Air is water with holes in it.
Alas, I am dying beyond my means. ― Oscar Wilde, as he sipped champagne on his deathbed
Any sufficiently advanced bureaucracy is indistinguishable from molasses.
Any sufficiently advanced stupidity is indistinguishable from malice. ― Paul Chvostek by way of Arthur C. Clarke (via John Ripley)
Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from a rigged demo. ― Andy Finkel, computer guy
Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. ― Arthur C. Clarke
Angular momentum makes the world go round.
Ankh if you love Isis.
Anoint, v.: To grease a king or other great functionary already sufficiently slippery.
Another good night not to sleep in a eucalyptus tree.
Another one bites the dust.
Anthony's Law of Force: Do not force it; get a larger hammer.
Antimatter doesn't matter as a matter of fact.― Piggins
Biography is the fallacy of intention.― Peter Taylor
Biology ... it grows on you.
Bizarreness is the essence of the exotic
Black holes are where God is dividing by zero.
Egotism is the anesthetic that dulls the pain of stupidity.― Frank Leahy
Every program has two purposes ― one for which it was written and another for which it wasn't.
Every program is a part of some other program, and rarely fits.
Every purchase has its price.
Every silver lining has a cloud around it.
Every solution breeds new problems.
Every successful person has had failures, but repeated failure is no
guarantee of eventual success.
Every word is like an unnecessary stain on silence and nothingness.― Beckett
Good advice is something a man gives when he is too old to set a bad example.― La Rouchefoucauld
God is the tangential point between zero and infinity.― Alfred Jarry
God made machine language; all the rest is the work of man.
God made the integers;
Hanlon's Razor: Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity.
Horngren's Observation: Among economists, the real world is often a special case.
Horse sense is the thing a horse has which keeps it from betting on people. ― W. C. Fields
I fart in your general direction, tiny-brained wiper of other people's bottoms.
I generally avoid temptation unless I can't resist it.― Mae West
I have discovered the heart of bushido: to die!― Yamamoto Tsunetomo
I have never killed a man, but I have read many obituaries with great pleasure. ― Clarence Darrow
I haven't lost my mind ― it's backed up on tape somewhere.
I never met a piece of chocolate I didn't like.
I profoundly believe it takes a lot of practice to become a moral slob. ― William F. Buckley
I program, therefore I am.
I think you ought to know I'm feeling very depressed. ― Marvin
I tried being reasonable once. I didn't like it.
I use not only all the brains I have but all that I can borrow. ― Woodrow Wilson
I used to be indecisive; now I'm not sure.― Graffiti
I used to get high on life but lately I've built up a resistance.
If it has syntax, it isn't user friendly.
If it pours before seven, it has rained by eleven.
If it weren't for Newton, we wouldn't have to eat bruised apples.
If it's Tuesday, this must be someone else's fortune.
In theory, theory and practice are the same. In practice, they're different.― Albert Einstein
In this world, Truth can wait; she's used to it.
It is easier to change the specification to fit the program than vice versa.
It is easier to fight for one's principles than to live up to them.
It is easier to get forgiveness than permission.
It is easier to run down a hill than up one.
It is easier to write an incorrect program than understand a correct one.
Make it right before you make it faster.
Make no little plans. They have no Magic to stir Men's blood.― D. B. Hudson
Make sure all variables are initialized before use.
Make sure comments and code agree.
Make sure your code "does nothing" gracefully.
Nostalgia isn't what it used to be.
Nothing astonishes men so much as common sense and plain dealing.
Nothing cures insomnia like the realization that it's time to get up.
Programming is an art form that fights back.
Programming is 10% science, 25% ingenuity and 65% getting the ingenuity to work with the science.
Programming is like sex: one mistake and you're providing support for a lifetime. ― Michael Sinz
Progress is nothing but the victory of laughter over dogma. ― Benjamin DeCasseres
Nothing is as easy as it looks. - Murphy’s law
Everything takes longer than you think.- Murphy’s law
Anything that can go wrong will go wrong.- Murphy’s law
If anything simply cannot go wrong, it will anyway.- Murphy’s law
Left to themselves, things tend to go from bad to worse.- Murphy’s law
If everything seems to be going well, you have obviously overlooked something.- Murphy’s law
Nature always sides with the hidden flaw.- Murphy’s law
Mother nature is a bitch.- Murphy’s law
It is impossible to make anything foolproof because fools are so ingenious.- Murphy’s law
Whenever you set out to do something, something else must be done first.- Murphy’s law
Every solution breeds new problems.- Murphy’s law
Real Programmers aren't scared of GOTOs... but they really prefer branches to absolute locations.
Real Programmers don't write COBOL. COBOL is for wimpy application programmers.
Real Programmers' programs never work right the first time. But if you throw them on the machine they can be patched into working in "only a few" 30-hour debugging sessions.
Real Programmers don't write in FORTRAN. FORTRAN is for pipe stress freaks and crystallography weenies.
Real Programmers never work 9 to 5. If they are around at 9 AM, it's because they were up all night.
Real Programmers don't write in BASIC. Actually, no programmers write in BASIC... after age twelve.
Real Programmers can take the scissors off the phone cord.
Real Programmers don't write in PL/I. PL/I is for programmers who can't decide whether to write in COBOL or FORTRAN.
Microsoft — making it all make sense. Ours.
Linux — Because Software Problems Should not Cost Money.
A more experienced programmer does not make less bugs. He just realizes what went wrong more quickly.
Tcl is Lisp on drugs. Using strings instead of S‐expressions for closures is Evil with one of those gigantic E’s you can find at the beginning of chapters.
95% of Programmers consider 95% of the code they did not write, in the bottom 5%.
No self‐respecting tomboy would use Mandriva.
C++ is complex, complexifying and complexified.
The computing scientist’s main challenge is not to get confused by the complexities of his own making. — E. W. Dijkstra
The cheapest, fastest, and most reliable components are those that aren’t there. — Gordon Bell
UNIX was not designed to stop its users from doing stupid things, as that would also stop them from doing clever things. — Doug Gwyn
If you’re willing to restrict the flexibility of your approach, you can almost always do something better.
PHP is a minor evil perpetrated and created by incompetent amateurs, whereas Perl is a great and insidious evil perpetrated by skilled but perverted professionals.
"Lisp isn't a language, it's a building material."- Alan Kay.
"Walking on water and developing software from a specification are easy if both are frozen."- Edward V Berard
"They don't make bugs like Bunny anymore."- Olav Mjelde.
"A programming language is low level when its programs require attention to the irrelevant."- Alan J. Perlis.
"A C program is like a fast dance on a newly waxed dance floor by people carrying razors." - Waldi Ravens.
"I have always wished for my computer to be as easy to use as my telephone; my wish has come true because I can no longer figure out how to use my telephone."- Bjarne Stroustrup
“Computer science education cannot make anybody an expert programmer any more than studying brushes and pigment can make somebody an expert painter.”- Eric S. Raymond
"The use of COBOL cripples the mind; its teaching should therefore be regarded as a criminal offense." - E.W. Dijkstra
"In the one and only true way. The object-oriented version of 'Spaghetti code' is, of course, 'Lasagna code'. (Too many layers)." - Roberto Waltman.
"FORTRAN is not a flower but a weed — it is hardy, occasionally blooms, and grows in every computer."- Alan J. Perlis.
"When someone says: 'I want a programming language in which I need only say what I wish done', give him a lollipop." - Alan J. Perlis
"The evolution of languages: FORTRAN is a non-typed language. C is a weakly typed language. Ada is a strongly typed language. C++ is a strongly hyped language." - Ron Sercely
"Good design adds value faster than it adds cost."- Thomas C. Gale
"Python's a drop-in replacement for BASIC in the sense that Optimus Prime is a drop-in replacement for a truck."- Cory Dodt
"Talk is cheap. Show me the code."- Linus Torvalds
"C is quirky, flawed, and an enormous success."- Dennis M. Ritchie.
"Perl – The only language that looks the same before and after RSA encryption." - Keith Bostic
"It is easier to port a shell than a shell script." - Larry Wall
"Beware of bugs in the above code; I have only proved it correct, not tried it." - Donald E. Knuth.
"Computer system analysis is like child-rearing; you can do grievous damage, but you cannot ensure success."- Tom DeMarco
"I don't care if it works on your machine! We are not shipping your machine!" - Vidiu Platon.
"Sometimes it pays to stay in bed on Monday, rather than spending the rest of the week debugging Monday's code.”- Christopher Thompson
"Measuring programming progress by lines of code is like measuring aircraft building progress by weight." - Bill Gates
"Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it." - Brian W. Kernighan.
"People think that computer science is the art of geniuses but the actual reality is the opposite, just many people doing things that build on each other, like a wall of mini stones."- Donald Knuth
“First learn computer science and all the theory. Next develop a programming style. Then forget all that and just hack.” - George Carrette
“Most of you are familiar with the virtues of a programmer. There are three, of course: laziness, impatience, and hubris.” - Larry Wall
“Most software today is very much like an Egyptian pyramid with millions of bricks piled on top of each other, with no structural integrity, but just done by brute force and thousands of slaves.”- Alan Kay
“The trouble with programmers is that you can never tell what a programmer is doing until it’s too late.” - Seymour Cray
“To iterate is human, to recurse divine.”- L. Peter Deutsch
"Most good programmers do programming not because they expect to get paid or get adulation by the public, but because it is fun to program."- Linus Torvalds
"Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a violent psychopath who knows where you live." - Martin Golding
"Artificial Intelligence usually beats natural stupidity."
"To err is human... to really foul up requires the root password."
"Like car accidents, most hardware problems are due to driver error."
"If at first you don't succeed; call it version 1.0"
"If Python is executable pseudocode, then perl is executable line noise."
"Programmers are tools for converting caffeine into code."
"Why do we want intelligent terminals when there are so many stupid users?"
"I can't uninstall it, there seems to be some kind of 'Uninstall Shield'."
"See daddy ? All the keys are in alphabetical order now."
"Hey! It compiles! Ship it!"
"SUPERCOMPUTER: what it sounded like before you bought it."
"Yo moma is like HTML: Tiny head, huge body."
"Windows Vista: It's like upgrading from Bill Clinton to George W. Bush."
"The more I C, the less I see."
"Life would be so much easier if we only had the source code."
"My software never has bugs. It just develops random features."
Make me a sandwich - What? Make it yourself. - sudo Make me a sandwich !! -Okay
If you have any trouble sounding condescending, find a UNIX user to show you how it's done.
Thou shalt not kill -9
There is no place like 127.0.0.1
Those who do not understand UNIX are condemned to reinvent it, poorly.
370 JCL: You send your foot down to MIS and include a 400-page document explaining exactly how you want it to be shot. Three years later, your foot comes back deep-fried.
Anyone who hates Dogs and Kids Can't be All Bad.-- W. C. Fields
A diplomat is a man who can convince his wife she'd look stout in a fur coat.
A classic is something that everybody wants to have read and nobody wants to read.
All programmers are playwrights and all computers are lousy actors.
As of next week, passwords will be entered in Morse code.
Never go to a doctor whose office plants have died.
Death is life's way of telling you you've been fired.
Death is nature's way of telling you to slow down.
Fifth Law of Applied Terror: If you are given an open-book exam, you will forget your book.
Science is true.  Don't be misled by facts.
Finagle's First Law: If an experiment works, something has gone wrong.
Whatever it is that hits the fan will not be evenly distributed.
Nothing cures insomnia like the realization that it's time to get up.
A common mistake that people make when trying to design something completely foolproof is to underestimate the ingenuity of complete fools - Douglas Adams
All it takes to fly is to hurl yourself at the ground ... and miss - Douglas Adams
Being offended by things is the world's big hobby at the moment. It's almost taken over from wearing goatee beards - Douglas Adams
I love deadlines. I like the whooshing sound they make as they fly by. - Douglas Adams
I'd far rather be happy than right any day - Douglas Adams 
If you try and take a cat apart to see how it works, the first thing you have on your hands is a non-working cat - Douglas Adams
It is a mistake to think you can solve any major problems just with potatoes- Douglas Adams
The impossible has a kind of integrity which the merely improbable lacks - Douglas Adams
The ships hung in the sky in much the same way that bricks don't - Douglas Adams
Time is an illusion, lunchtime doubly so - Douglas Adams
With a rubber duck, one's never alone - Douglas Adams
Yes, it was an act of God. But which God? - Douglas Adams
You can't dodge your responsibilities by saying they don't exist! - Douglas Adams
You live and learn. At any rate, you live - Douglas Adams
He who laughs most, learns best  - John Cleese
Comedy always works best when it is mean-spirited - John Cleese
I find it rather easy to portray a businessman. Being bland, rather cruel, and incompetent comes naturally to me - John Cleese
Adults are just obsolete children, and the hell with them - Theodor Seuss Geisel
ASAP. Whatever that means. It must mean, 'Act swiftly awesome pachyderm! - Theodor Seuss Geisel
Don't let programmers write instructions. – Any English major.
"Don't be afraid of death so much as an inadequate life." – Bertolt Brecht
Real life is that big, high-res, high-color screen saver behind all the windows. – anonymous
"In a time of drastic change, it is the learners who inherit the future. The learned find themselves equipped to live in a world that no longer exists." – Eric Hoffer
"It goes against the grain of modern education to teach children to program. What fun is there in making plans, acquiring discipline in organizing thoughts, devoting attention to detail and learning to be self-critical?" – Alan J. Perlis
"A year spent in artificial intelligence is enough to make one believe in God." – Alan J. Perlis
"It wasn't as easy to get programs right as we had thought. " – Wilkes, 1949
"Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?" – TS Eliot, Choruses from the Rock
"what if a much of a which of a wind gives truth to summer's lie" – e e cummings
"Dealing with failure is easy: Work hard to improve. Success is also easy to handle: You've solved the wrong problem. Work hard to improve." – Alan J. Perlis
"Man tut nicht wohl, sich allzulange im Abstrakten aufzuhalten." – Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (18??)(something like: "You're not doing yourself a pleasure, if you stay too long in abstractions.")
"It serves one well not to dabble in abstractions too long." – J.W. Goethe
"Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one." – Albert Einstein
"We've all heard that a million monkeys banging on a million typewriters will eventually reproduce the entire works ofShakespeare. Now, thanks to the Internet, we know this is not true." – Robert Wilensky
The tree of research must from time to time be refreshed with the blood of bean counters. – Alan Kay
If we learn best by playing, Then we need lifelong kindergarten – If/Then
"Simplicity does not precede complexity, but follows it." – Alan J. Perlis
"The world of knowledge takes a crazy turn when teachers themselves are taught to learn." – Bertolt Brecht
Programming is one of the most difficult branches of applied mathematics; the poorer mathematicians had better remain pure mathematicians. – Edsger W. Dijkstra
The use of anthropomorphic terminology when dealing with computing systems is a symptom of professional immaturity. – Edsger W. Dijkstra
About the use of language: it is impossible to sharpen a pencil with a blunt axe. It is equally vain to try to do it with ten blunt axes instead. – Edsger W. Dijkstra
"Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted." – Albert Einstein
"Perplexity is the beginning of knowledge." – Kahlil Gibran
The best way to predict the future is by using Squeak.
Problems cannot be solved at the same level of awareness that created them. – Albert Einstein
Physics is not a religion. If it were, we'd have a much easier time raising money. – Leon Lenderman
If we knew what it was we were doing, it would not be called research, would it? – Albert Einstein
Logic . . . merely enables one to be wrong with authority. – Doctor Who
Programming is debugging a blank sheet of paper. – Gerald Sussman
Computers are useless; they can only give you answers. – Pablo Picasso
If the Computer is a universal control system, let's give kids universes to control. – Theodore H. Nelson (1974)
An Interface is what gets in between you and what you want to do – Carl Havermiste
Education is typically the process of successively ruining subjects for you, and the last subject to be ruined determines your profession – Theodore H. Nelson, "Literary Machines 93.1"
Having the source code is the difference between buying a house and renting an apartment – Behlendorf.
The bearing of a child takes nine months, no matter how many women are assigned. – Frederick P. Brooks Jr.,Mythical Man Month.
"C++ : an octopus made by nailing extra legs onto a dog" –unknown
"Claiming Java is easier than C++ is like saying that K2 is shorter than Everest." –Larry O'Brien (editor, Software Development)
"C combines all the power of assembly language with all the ease of use of assembly language" –trad
"Programming today is a race between software engineers striving to build bigger and better idiot-proof programs, and the Universe trying to produce bigger and better idiots. So far, the Universe is winning – Rich Cook
"Java: the elegant simplicity of C++ and the blazing speed of Smalltalk." – Jan Steinman
"I have found that humans often use Smalltalk during awkward moments." – Commander Data, ST TNG
Before C++ we had to code all of our bugs by hand; now we inherit them.
"A Bend in the Road, is Not the End of the Road, Unless you Fail to Make the Turn."
A language that doesn't affect the way you think about programming is not worth knowing.” Alan Perlis
“Programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally for machines to execute.” Hal Abelson
One man's constant is another man's variable.
Functions delay binding; data structures induce binding. Moral: Structure data late in the programming process.
Syntactic sugar causes cancer of the semicolon.
Every program is a part of some other program and rarely fits.
If a program manipulates a large amount of data, it does so in a small number of ways.
Symmetry is a complexity-reducing concept (co-routines include subroutines); seek it everywhere.
It is easier to write an incorrect program than understand a correct one.
A programming language is low level when its programs require attention to the irrelevant.
It is better to have 100 functions operate on one data structure than 10 functions on 10 data structures.
If you have a procedure with ten parameters, you probably missed some.
Recursion is the root of computation since it trades description for time.
If two people write exactly the same program, each should be put into microcode and then they certainly won't be the same.
In the long run every program becomes rococo - then rubble.
Everything should be built top-down, except the first time.
Every program has (at least) two purposes: the one for which it was written, and another for which it wasn't.
If a listener nods his head when you're explaining your program, wake him up.
A program without a loop and a structured variable isn't worth writing.
A language that doesn't affect the way you think about programming, is not worth knowing.
Wherever there is modularity there is the potential for misunderstanding: Hiding information implies a need to check communication.
Optimization hinders evolution.
A good system can't have a weak command language.
To understand a program you must become both the machine and the program.
Perhaps if we wrote programs from childhood on, as adults we'd be able to read them.
One can only display complex information in the mind. Like seeing, movement or flow or alteration of view is more important than the static picture, no matter how lovely.
There will always be things we wish to say in our programs that in all known languages can only be said poorly.
Once you understand how to write a program get someone else to write it.
Around computers it is difficult to find the correct unit of time to measure progress. Some cathedrals took a century to complete
For systems, the analogue of a face-lift is to add to the control graph an edge that creates a cycle, not just an additional node.
In programming, everything we do is a special case of something more general -- and often we know it too quickly.
Simplicity does not precede complexity, but follows it.
Programmers are not to be measured by their ingenuity and their logic but by the completeness of their case analysis.
The eleventh commandment was "Thou Shalt Compute" or "Thou Shalt Not Compute" - I forget which.
The string is a stark data structure and everywhere it is passed there is much duplication of process. It is a perfect vehicle for hiding information.
Everyone can be taught to sculpt: Michelangelo would have had to be taught not to. So it is with great programmers.
Structured Programming supports the law of the excluded middle.
There are two ways to write error-free programs; only the third one works.
Some programming languages manage to absorb change, but withstand progress.
You can measure a programmer's perspective by noting his attitude on the continuing vitality of FORTRAN.
In software systems, it is often the early bird that makes the worm.
Sometimes I think the only universal in the computing field is the fetch-execute cycle.
The goal of computation is the emulation of our synthetic abilities, not the understanding of our analytic ones.
Like punning, programming is a play on words.
As Will Rogers would have said, "There is no such thing as a free variable."
The best book on programming for the layman is "Alice in Wonderland"; but that's because it's the best book on anything for the layman.
Giving up on assembly language was the apple in our Garden of Eden: Languages whose use squanders machine cycles are sinful. The LISP machine now permits LISP programmers to abandon bra and fig-leaf.
When we understand knowledge-based systems, it will be as before -- except our fingertips will have been singed.
Bringing computers into the home won't change either one, but may revitalize the corner saloon.
Systems have sub-systems and sub-systems have sub- systems and so on ad infinitum - which is why we're always starting over.
So many good ideas are never heard from again once they embark in a voyage on the semantic gulf.
Beware of the Turing tar-pit in which everything is possible but nothing of interest is easy.
A LISP programmer knows the value of everything, but the cost of nothing.
Software is under a constant tension. Being symbolic it is arbitrarily perfectible; but also it is arbitrarily changeable.
It is easier to change the specification to fit the program than vice versa.
Fools ignore complexity. Pragmatists suffer it. Some can avoid it. Geniuses remove it.
In English every word can be verbed. Would that it were so in our programming languages.
In seeking the unattainable, simplicity only gets in the way.
In programming, as in everything else, to be in error is to be reborn.
In computing, invariants are ephemeral.
When we write programs that "learn", it turns out that we do and they don't.
Often it is the means that justify the ends: Goals advance technique and technique survives even when goal structures crumble.
Making something variable is easy. Controlling duration of constancy is the trick.
Think of all the psychic energy expended in seeking a fundamental distinction between "algorithm" and "program".
If we believe in data structures, we must believe in independent (hence simultaneous) processing. For why else would we collect items within a structure? Why do we tolerate languages that give us the one without the other?
In a 5 year period we get one superb programming language. Only we can't control when the 5 year period will be.
Documentation is like term insurance: It satisfies because almost no one who subscribes to it depends on its benefits.
An adequate bootstrap is a contradiction in terms.
It is not a language's weakness but its strengths that control the gradient of its change: Alas, a language never escapes its embryonic sac.
Is it possible that software is not like anything else, that it is meant to be discarded: that the whole point is to see it as a soap bubble?
Because of its vitality, the computing field is always in desperate need of new cliches: Banality soothes our nerves.
It is the user who should parameterize procedures, not their creators.
The cybernetic exchange between man, computer and algorithm is like a game of musical chairs: The frantic search for balance always leaves one of the three standing ill at ease.
If your computer speaks English, it was probably made in Japan.
A year spent in artificial intelligence is enough to make one believe in God.
Prolonged contact with the computer turns mathematicians into clerks and vice versa.
In computing, turning the obvious into the useful is a living definition of the word "frustration".
We are on the verge: Today our program proved Fermat's next-to-last theorem.
Motto for a research laboratory: What we work on today, others will first think of tomorrow.
Though the Chinese should adore APL, it's FORTRAN they put their money on.
We have the mini and the micro computer. In what semantic niche would the pico computer fall?
Interfaces keep things tidy, but don't accelerate growth: Functions do.
Don't have good ideas if you aren't willing to be responsible for them.
Computers don't introduce order anywhere as much as they expose opportunities.
In computing, the mean time to failure keeps getting shorter.
In man-machine symbiosis, it is man who must adjust: The machines can't.
You can't communicate complexity, only an awareness of it.