Asking Insightful Questions
Don't miss out. At the end of almost any interview, the interviewer will ask you what questions you have for them. This may appear to signal the end of the interview, but this is not the case. Because this is the only part of the conversation that you control, they will judge you based on the questions you ask and how astute they seem. Asking smart questions at the end of an interview is an easy way to show that you know what you're doing and to make a lasting impression.

Generic Questions
Company-wide
What do you love about working at company?
What are the common traits of your top performers?
Are you currently considering some changes to your stack?
How old is your codebase?
Engineering
Process

Can you describe your build process?
How often do you deploy your code?
How fast is the process?
How fast is the rollback?
Who's in charge of a deploy?
Do you have a bug database?
What source control do you use?
What is your workflow currently, with regards to developers pushing changes. Do you do pull requests, or does everyone just merge to a central repo?
What do new hires do to get a handle on your code base?
Do you unit test? What libraries do you use? What's your level of coverage?
Conventions

Do you follow standard conventions for every language in your stack? Do your have your own conventions for the frameworks you use?
Is complex code commented?
Are there Readmes describing higher-level systems in the codebase?
Quality Assurance

Are code reviews a regular part of your process?
Are there any tests?
What kind of tests?
How often are the tests run?
Is there a testing requirement for new features?
Is there a testing engineer or testing team?
source: Pamela Fox

Company-specific Questions
When you're further into the job hunt and you're getting confident with technical interviews, start applying to companies you actually care about.

Notice a choice they made in their UX. Ask what the motivation behind it was (without sounding critical!).
Look at the Github profiles of the company or some of its employees. Do they contribute to open-source? Do they have an open-source project of their own? If so spend some time on that code and go to the interview with questions about the choices they made. Major points if you can send them a pull request.
Ask them for broad strokes on how they're solving a problem specific to their product.
If they're a third party service agency, how do they match clients with service providers?
If search is crucial to their product, ask them how it's implemented.
More good questions here: http://jvns.ca/blog/2013/12/30/questions-im-asking-in-interviews/