Behavioral Questions
Behavioral questions are a type of interview question that ask about specific situations from your past. For example "Tell me about a time you dealt with an interpersonal issue" is a behavioral question. The interviewer is trying to get a picture of how you handle yourself at a job.

Answers to behavioral questions should also take the form of a story. Remember to include specifics about time/place. The story should begin with a problem, then describe actions you took, and end with a result. Together, this should take about 30 seconds.

Problem - the situation that required support or intervention
Action - what you did to address the problem
Result - the improved situation produced through your actions
An example for the question "Tell me about a time you took initiative to do improve something."

Problem: "When I was at ABC company, we kept all our data on spreadsheets. There were so many, the sheets were almost impossible to keep updated. And when I tried to find information for a client, it sometimes took me 30 minutes to find the numbers I needed."
Action: "I started researching better ways to store data, and found a number of database options online. I researched three different options, discussed each with my manager, and ultimately chose Salesforce as the best fit for us."
Result: "I worked with our office manager to get the system set up, and two months later, we not only had cleaner data that was easier to update, but were able to keep track of almost twice as many metrics as we were before."
Answers to these questions can come from your work history, academic projects, or even personal projects.

Other behavioral questions include:

What do you consider your greatest career accomplishment?
Tell me about a time you dealt with an interpersonal issue.
What was the hardest problem your ran into in the job?
Tell me about a time you had to teach yourself something in order to reach your goal.
Tell me about the most difficult challenge you encountered on that software project.
Other questions
Well rehearsed responses to these common questions will help you stand out:

How did you hear about us?
Why do you want to work at our company?
Why do you want to be a programmer?
Where do you see yourself five years down the road?
How did you teach yourself to program?
Here it makes sense to bring up App Academy.
How do you go about picking up a new technology?
What kinds of problems do you like to work on?
What was the hardest coding project you ever did?
What work have you done that you are most proud of?
Some common questions can be related to coding:

What do you like about Ruby?
Common answers: readable, object-oriented
What do you like about Rails?
Common answer: "convention over configuration"
Walk me through your development process for a new project.
Pro moves: mapping out database relations, listing specifications for the controllers, writing tests, sketching out the views...
What's your favorite algorithm?
What's your favorite data structure?
What's your favorite Ruby gem (other than Rails)?
Interviewing Tips
1. Take care of yourself first!
Like being on an airplane you need to put the oxygen mask on you, first! During the interview, breathe, go slow. If you are asked a tricky question, repeat and rephrase the question, then take a few moments to ponder your calm response. Remember...there is a fine line between taking a gentle quiet moment vs. a creepy long period of uncomfortable silence.

Burn off excess energy before if need be. Go to the gym. Take a walk. Meditate. Whatever YOU need to do to help you feel more at ease during the interview.

Bring water (not coffee or carbonated beverages) as you might need a moment to "refresh".

2. How you say it matters more than what you say.
Your energy and volume is ESSENTIAL during the interview. Keep in mind that a typical recruiter or interview team talk with many people. What will make a huge difference between you and other candidates is how you respond. On a level of 1-10 your interview positive energy must be at 9-10. What do you need to do to get your volume and energy up? Remember, there is an amazing carrot at the end of the stick.

3. Prepare. Prepare. Prepare.
Prior to going to an interview, the best way to prepare is to record yourself. As adults, we learn quicker when we see and hear ourselves. Have a friend or family member ask you tough interview questions and record yourself. Record yourself while pair boarding so that you KNOW what you look and sound like. What needs to be improved?

4. Nervousness vs. Taking Your Power Back During An Interview**
Being a little nervous is healthy during an interview. However, being extremely nervous can be dangerous. Remember, you are powerless over people and their responses. All you can do is bring your most authentic self to the interview.

Keep in mind that if you have a phone screen, they already like you! Something on your resume has resonated with the company and/or you have a referral that has helped you get in. You are halfway there. If you are green-lighted for an onsite, by this time they already have liked you and probably your technical abilities. All you have to do now is put the "icing on the cake".

Following is an article for your consideration: Take Your Power Back During An Interview

5. What To Wear?
Prior to an interview, search the company name + office. Often, if you click on images, you can see what the internal culture looks like. The rule of thumb is to dress one step above what the employees wear. If they are t-shirts and jeans, maybe you wear nice slacks (or skirt for females) and a shirt with a nice pair of shoes. If they are more shirt and khakis, then maybe a tie or dress/suit might be suitable. Grooming and attire is essential to how you present your "professional brand" to a potential employer.